#### See the format-compliant report in /doc/reports/job_01_report.md

.pcap file (Wireshark dump)

The provided .pcap file was analyzed using Wireshark

### Protocols hierarchy

Using the Protocol Hierarchy statistics in Wireshark shows that the capture is mostly composed of Microsoft related protocols at the application level. The main protocols observed are Kerberos, SMB, and NetBIOS.

This suggests that the traffic originates from a Windows environment, most likely within an internal domain network where authentication and file sharing operations are common.

### Identifying hosts through NBNS requests

To better understand the machines involved in the capture, we can inspect the NBNS (NetBIOS Name Service) requests. These requests allow us to associate IP addresses with hostnames.

From these packets we can infer that 172.16.1.66 corresponds to the host DESKTOP-SKBR25F. The address 172.16.1.4 corresponds to WIRESHARKWORKSH, which appears to be the domain controller.

This observation is consistent with the Kerberos and SMB traffic seen previously, since these protocols are commonly used in an Active Directory environment.

### Communication statistics

By looking at Statistics → Conversations in Wireshark, we can identify the most active communications and the number of packets exchanged between hosts.

The following communications were observed.
172.16.1.66 communicated 1713 packets to 172.16.1.4.
172.16.1.66 communicated 411 packets to 141.98.10.79.
172.16.1.66 communicated 6540 packets to 199.232.196.209.
172.16.1.66 communicated 653 packets to 185.199.110.133.

The communication with 172.16.1.4 appears consistent with normal internal domain traffic.

However, the three other addresses are external hosts, which makes them more relevant for further investigation from a security perspective.

Isolating suspicious conversations

The stream IDs associated with these communications are 20, 21, and 22.

These conversations can be isolated using Wireshark filters. For example:

ip.addr == 172.16.1.66 && ip.addr == 185.199.110.133

Applying this filter allows us to inspect the specific exchange between the internal host and the external server.

Inspecting the traffic with 185.199.110.133 reveals a TLS Client Hello request directed toward githubusercontent.com. This indicates that the host is attempting to retrieve content from GitHub's content delivery infrastructure, which may correspond to downloading scripts, binaries, or other files hosted in a repository.

Applying the same filtering logic to 199.232.196.209 conversations reveals traffic associated with a Maven repository. This suggests that the system may be retrieving software dependencies or packages, which could be legitimate depending on the software installed on the machine.

With 141.98.10.79 the packets mainly consist of keep-alive messages sent to a STRAT service.

A search for this IP address on Shodan.io did not return anything useful, maybe the host is not reachable or just for this CTF ?

Preliminary conclusion

The address 172.16.1.4 appears to correspond to legitimate internal domain traffic. The address 185.199.110.133 is a Github to download hosted content. The address 199.232.196.209 looks like a Maven repository, which may correspond to software dependency downloads.

The address 141.98.10.79 with the repeated keep-alive looks the most suspect.


